# Setting up the GitHub-Runner

All following commands are meant to be executed on the machine you want your GitHub Runner to run on. This guide was written and tested for a fresh install of Ubuntu 20.04.2.0 LTS.

## Installation & Configuration

The following guide explains how to add a runner to a repository. If you want to add a runner to an organization or an enterprise instead, refer to [Adding self-hosted runners to an organization](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/adding-self-hosted-runners#adding-a-self-hosted-runner-to-an-organization) and [Adding a self-hosted runner to an enterprise](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/adding-self-hosted-runners#adding-a-self-hosted-runner-to-an-enterprise), respectively.

1. On GitHub.com, navigate to the main page of the repository.

2. Under your repository name, click **Settings**.

3. In the left sidebar, click **Actions**.

4. In the left sidebar, under "Actions", click **Runners**.

5. Click **New self-hosted runner**.

6. Select the operating system image (Linux) and architecture (x64) for your self hosted runner.

7. You will see instructions showing you how to download the runner application and install it on your self-hosted runner machine. Open a shell on your self-hosted runner machine and run each shell command in the order shown. The instructions walk you through completing these tasks:
    - Downloading and extracting the self-hosted runner application.
    - Running the `config` script to configure the self-hosted runner application and register it with GitHub Actions. The `config` script requires the destination URL and an automatically-generated time-limited token to authenticate the request. When asked to choose labels for your runner, choose "self-hosted", "linux" and "x64" (should be suggested by default).
    - Running the self-hosted runner application to connect the machine to GitHub Actions.

After completing the steps to add a self-hosted runner, the runner and its status are now listed under "Runners". The self-hosted runner application must be active for the runner to accept jobs.

If you wish to run your Runner in the background you can use, for example, `nohup ./run.sh &`.
Any output generated by the created process will be sent to `nohup.out` (in the same directory).


## Other Installs

The following packages are required for the tasks executed by the runner (WIP: Install requirements in venv whenever possible and use that instead):

- VirtualBox + extension pack
    ```sh
    sudo apt install -y virtualbox virtualbox-ext-pack
    ```

- Packer v1.6.3
    ```sh
    export VER="1.6.3"
    sudo wget https://releases.hashicorp.com/packer/${VER}/packer_${VER}_linux_amd64.zip
    sudo unzip packer_${VER}_linux_amd64.zip -d /usr/local/bin
    ```

- Requirements for the python package `cryptography`
    ```sh
    sudo apt install -y build-essential libssl-dev libffi-dev python3-dev
    ```

- Python pip and virtual environments
    ```sh
    sudo apt install -y python3-pip
    sudo apt install -y python3-venv
    ```
    
- (optional) cowsay + fortunes
    ```sh
    # optional, but it looks nice
    sudo apt install -y cowsay fortunes
    ```

## Other Configuration

- Configure the management network interface:
    ```sh
    vboxmanage hostonlyif create # should create vboxnet0, else adapt following lines
    vboxmanage hostonlyif ipconfig vboxnet0 --ip 192.168.56.1 --netmask 255.255.255.0
    vboxmanage dhcpserver modify --ifname vboxnet0 --disable
    exit
    ```
    
- Create the `/usr/share/runner-dependencies`-directory, place the provided Windows10 Pro .iso-file in said directory (Windows version used for testing: `Microsoft Windows 10 Pro 10.0.19041 Build 19041`) and change permissions for the entire directory:
    ```sh
    sudo mkdir /usr/share/runner-dependencies
    sudo mv /path/to/your/Windows.iso /usr/share/runner/dependecies/Win10.iso
    sudo chmod -r 777 /usr/share/runner-dependencies/
    # necessary, otherwise the runner process will be unable to provision VMs
    ```


## The `.github/workflows` directory
When triggered, the behavior of all Runners is defined by the contents of the `.github/workflows` directory, which you can find in the root-directory of your repository. As-is, the Runner will perform unit tests whenever a commit is pushed, as well as scheduled system tests. If you wish to comprehend or modify the tasks performed by the Runner, please refer to the [GitHub Actions Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions).

